.TH CLIBSECRET 1 2015-06-03 0.8 "clibsecret Manual"
.SH NAME
clibsecret \- CLI to GNOME libsecret
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "clibsecret [-IU] [-NDul] [-k " KEYRING "|-a " ALIAS "] [-ndmS] [-s " SECRET "] [-r " FORMAT "] [-i " FORMAT "] [" LABEL "] [" "ATTRIBUTE VALUE" "...]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B clibsecret
provides shell interface to GNOME libsecret library, which is itself API for the D-Bus org.freedesktop.secrets interface used by i.e.
.BR gnome-keyring (1).
clibsecret is aimed for easy batch processing of passwords, including pipelining support.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-I, --keyring-info
Write the table of existing keyrings, along with their aliases, locked status and created/modified times.
.TP
-U, --no-auto-unlock
If the service wants to display an interactive password prompt (like for unlocking a keyring), exit with error instead.
.TP
.RI "-k, --keyring=" KEYRING
Choose a keyring by label for the following operations. Without explicitly choosing all keyrings are considered selected.
.TP
.RI "-a, --alias=" ALIAS
Choose a keyring by alias. Supercedes the previous option.
.TP
-N, --new-keyring
Create a new keyring. You can specify both a label and an alias here. The service will probably prompt for a password.
.TP
-D, --delete-keyring
Delete the selected keyring.
.TP
-u, --unlock-keyring
Unlock the selected keyring. The service may prompt.
.TP
-l, --lock-keyring
Lock the keyring before exiting.
.TP
.I LABEL
Filter the items that match the specified label (except with
.BR --new " or " --read " commands)."
.TP
.I ATTRIBUTE VALUE
Filter the items that have the specified attribute-value pairs. Any number of pairs may be specified.
.TP
-n, --new
Create a new item/items. The
.IR LABEL ", " ATTRIBUTE " and " VALUE
are treated as parameters of the new item.
.TP
.RI "-r, --read=" FORMAT
Read item parameters from input. See
.B FORMAT
for format specifiers. Parameters given on input overwrite command-line parameters, except attribute-value pairs which are combined. If
.B --new
is specified, a new item for each line of input is created; otherwise D-Bus item ID is expected to be read, and all the other parameters are what needs to be changed for this item.
.TP
-d, --delete
Delete the selected items.
.TP
-m, --move
Copy the selected items to another keyring. Note that
.BR --keyring " and " --alias
options here specify the move destination, so items cannot be selected based by keyring directly. Use pipelining.
.TP
.RI "-s, --secret=" SECRET
Change the selected items' secret. It is safer to use the next option, though.
.TP
-S, --change-secret
Prompt for selected items' secrets. Program has to be run from terminal for this.
.TP
.RI "-i, --info=" FORMAT
The opposite of
.BR --read :
write selected items' parameters to the output. See below for format specifiers.
.SH FORMAT
The format string for
.BR --read " and " --info
commands consists of percent-prefixed single-letter specifiers; groups of ordinary symbols that separate the specifiers (i.e. everything else) are delimiters. For the
.B --info
command, specifiers are expanded as explained below, and delimiters are written as-is; for the
.B --read
command, the specifier is parsed from a part of input line from the end of preceding delimeter until the beginning of the first substring that matches the following delimiter. (Thus, for instance, if delimiters consist of two spaces, you can safely use single-space-separated argument names.)
.PP
The valid specifiers are as follows:
.TP
%i
Item D-Bus ID. The ID is unique across all keyrings.
.TP
%l
Item label.
.TP
%s
Item secret.
.TP
%a
Next attribute name.
.TP
%v
Next attribute value. In sequence with the previous specifier shows name and value of the same attribute.
.TP
%A
Same as
.BR %a ,
but if format string ends before input string (for
.BR --read )
or before all attributes are exhausted (for
.BR --info ),
specifiers are re-parsed from last
.BR %A .
Also see
.BR EXAMPLE .
.TP
%t
.B --info
only: item creation time.
.TP
%m
.B --info
only: item modify time.
.TP
%c
.B --read
only: specify the collection to create item in or move item to.
.TP
%C
As above, but collection is specified by alias.
.TP
%*
.B --read
only: this specifier is parsed but ignored. Essentially a wildcard.
.TP
%%
Not actually a specifier, but stands for a single percent sign in a delimiter.
.SH DEFAULT ACTIONS
To simplify the pipelining, some default actions are supplied.
.IP *
If some items are selected, but no obvious action is supplied,
.B --info %i
is assumed.
.IP *
If an item action is specified, but any item specifiers are omitted,
.B --read %i
is assumed.
.PP
This behavior is somewhat experimental and may change in the future.
.SH BUGS
The program is not widely tested yet, so anything could happen.
.PP
.B clibsecret
also uses some as-yet unstable
.B libsecret
API, so at some point in the future it might stop compiling. Beware.
.SH EXAMPLE
Create a new item:
.PP
.RI "clibsecret --new " "foo bar baz" " -S"
.PP
The secret is then prompted.
.PP
Copy all items from keyring
.I foo
to new keyring
.IR bar :
.PP
.RI "clibsecret --keyring " foo " | clibsecret --move --new-keyring --keyring " bar
.PP
Note that this makes use of default actions as explained above.
.PP
Change all occurences of attribute
.IR foo = bar " to " baz :
.PP
.RI "clibsecret " foo " " bar " --info '%i %A %v ' | sed 's/" bar "/" baz "/' | clibsecret --read '%i %A %v '"
.PP
Notice a space at the end of format string \(em without it nothing would separate
.BR %v " from " %A .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gnome-keyring (1),
.BR secret-tool (1)
